19/05/2020, 18:21:51
1. Karma Yoga is foundational yoga.
2. [Yoga Pairs]
  2.1. Gnaya Yoga + Bhakti Yoga - Orientation to reality - Personal (Relational reality, ultimately to enjoy the union with God) or Impersonal (absolute Truth. Become that) .
  2.2 Raja Yoga + Karma Yoga - Path to be taken.

6. [Overview of Yoga] All the schools of yogas deal with meditating on the what is the reason of bondage and how we can liberate ourself from that bondage. Following are the overview
  6.1 Gnana Yoga -
    The reason for all maladies and bondages are due to ignorance. Knowledge removes ignorance leading to Jeevanmukta. We have forgotten who we are. And through knowledge we come to our identity with the infinite reality - true Self.
  6.2 Bhakti Yoga -
    Just remember God until the rememberance becomes so strong that it leads to realization - unite with God through love.
  6.3 Raja Yoga -
    Perfect the mind as an instrument to experience. Psychic control.
    faulty ness of mind leads to bondage. By cleaning it we come to reality.
  6.4 Karma Yoga -
    Work is worship. If you need to be active.
    Cause Bondage is attachment. Path of Karma Yoga is to develop non-attachment - Cultivate unselfishness. Selfishness / Egotism is the basis of attachment. Goal is freedom - Jeevanmukta, by being able to get away from bondage in the midst of action. Get out of Karma. Not get Karma.
    This is a foundational yoga, as whatever you do being alive is Karma. Action done by body, mind, speech!

7. [Karma Yoga details]
  7.1 *Karma Yoga is doing what is necessary*
  When a Karma Yogi does something, he does not say wow he has done something great. Rather, he says, `what else should i do?`. He does what is necessay.

  7.1 *Inaction amidst the action*
  Karma yoga is not about work per se. It is about the attitude of mind while doing some work. It is about developing that non-doership within. While doing the action, it is not about thinking I am doing it, but it is about being in the reverie that work is being done through me, by the grace of the Divine. It is about offering the result of the work to the same Divine. With this attitude, every work becomes like a puja. One is working to offer another thing to his beloved God, being a medium of the will of the same Divine! That is in iteself an experience of intimacy with the Divine!

  7.2 *Benefits of Karma Yoga*
    7.2.1 - Teaches us to be <practial>.
    7.2.2 - Constantly testes you of your <mettle - mental state>
    7.2.3 - Helps overcoming <selfishness>. Equal love towards all.
    7.2.4 - Helps me to spiritualize the whole of life - whatever we do, is sanctified as Yoga.

  7.3 *Principles of Karma Yoga*
    7.3.1 - It is a <mental> discipline. It is not about doing things.
    7.3.2 - Follow this step by step progression
      > work and worship
      > work as worship
      > work is worship
    7.3.3 - Karma yoga is not just mind purification. It is itself a means to realize God.
    7.3.4 - Every experience that comes to me is an opportunity to grow, and follow my spiritual practice. It is a conversation with the Divine. It is an offering to the Divine. I cannot control the outcome. Fruits of the action is outside my realm. It is in the house of the Divine. Inaction in action. We actually do not make this happen. It happens by Prakriti.
    7.3.5 - Things are in control. But they are not in my control. Every experience gives me a personalized experience to me. Each of one are seeing our own view of the universe. We are in an intimate conversation with the universe. It is a communion. - Communion between we (purusha) and the prakriti. Prakriti is intimately connected with me. 
