#NOTE Health and Fitness - 
  Dream -  I'm in excellent physical shape. I'm strong, fast and flexible. I feel confident in my body, and it doesn't hold me back from doing the things I want to do.
  Values - STRONG, CONFIDENT, CAPABLE.

#NOTE Mind and Wellness -
  Dream - I am at peace, centered, and connected to God, every moment of my day and night.
  Values - PEACEFUL, KIND, COMPASSIONATE, CREATIVE, OBJECTIVE, STRATEGIC

#NOTE Social and community -
  Dream - Mana Pristine - It was always a dream of my life to be able to work for society and the community. I always wanted to do it full time. And now, I have got that priceless opportunity. Lots of things need to be done in this area. And I will dedicate my life for this. For this is the only thing that I do selflessly. Everything else is for some selfish reason anyways.
  Values - HONEST, HARD WORKING, SELFLESS, INCLUSIVE, LEADER

#NOTE Productivity and habits -
  Dream - I'm consistent in thinking through my priorities before diving in to low-priority urgent tasks. I never feel rushed or show up late. I don't procrastinate because I'm able to focus on my most important work. I build positive habits that work for me and make my life better with little effort.
  Values - FOCUSSED, ORGANIZED, EFFECTIVE

#NOTE Growth and learning -
  Dream - I shall continue to grow and learn every moment of my life. At work I will grow as a project manager and a leader. At home I will grow and learn as the best father, husband, son, brother, and association member.
  Values -
    1. Redemption from attachment - This is done. Atlast! This growth happened after 16 years of hard work, and getting very deep into psychology, scriptures, yoga, meditation and what not. This has given me the horse power and foundation to start the 2nd chapter of my life, that is dedicated to
    2. Project Management. That is my Swadharma, and that is my worship to God. PMP - pass the exam with good performance
        2.1 PMP
        2.2 Project Management at working
        2.3 Program management at work
        2.4 Strategy and portfolio management

#NOTE Purpose and faith -
  Dream - Worship God every moment of my life - working, at home, sleeping, reading, writing - every moment.
  Values - One pointed, doggedness, Focussed, Loyal to the domain of God, Love only God, Hate anything else. Be focussed inward to the ocean of peace.

#NOTE Career and business -
  Dream -
  Project Management
  Program Management
  Strategy
  Values - Consistent, Predictable, Number oriented, no-non sense, responsible, accountable, dependable, creative, expert in the domain of project management.

#NOTE Geema's education -
  Dream
    Class VI -
    Class VII
    Class VIII
    Class IX
    Class X
    Class XI
    Class XII
    Value - Best father in the world, Being the best Guru, Being the best teacher, May she know all the concepts very clearly.
    Money & Lifestyle. Make Geema a very good scientist.

#NOTE Money
  Dreams: I don't worry about paying my bills. I don't take on debt without considering the long-term cost. I spend my money on experiences and purchases that have a positive impact on my life. I donate money to causes I believe in. I have planned for risks and future of my family.
  Values: Secure, intentional, visionary, generous.
