23/05/2020, 17:14:39

It is easy.
God made all things.
There is only God.
When you know this
Desire melts away.
Clinging to nothing,
You become still. . . .

We are all one Self.
The Self is pure awareness. This Self, this flawless awareness is God.

There is only God.
Everything else is an illusion:
  1. the little self,
  2. the world,
  3. the universe.
  4. All these things arise with the thought 'I', that is, with the idea of separate identity.

The little 'I' invents the material world, which in our ignorance we strive hard to sustain. Forgetting our original oneness, bound tightly in our imaginary separateness, we spend our lives mastered by a specious sense of purpose and value. Endlessly constrained by our habit of individuation, the creature of preference and desire, we continually set one thing against another, until the mischief and misery of choice consume us.
But our true nature is pure and choiceless awareness. We are already and always fulfilled.
It is easy, says Ashtavakra. You are the clear space of awareness (cidakasa), pure and still, in
whom there is no birth, no striving, no 'I'.
Be happy. Love yourself. Don't judge others. Forgive. Always be simple. Don't make
distinctions. Give up the habit of choice. Let the mind dissolve. Give up preferring and
desiring. Desire only your own awareness. Give up identifying with the body and the senses.
Give up your attachment to meditation and service. Give up your attachment to detachment.

Give up giving up! Reject nothing, accept nothing. Be still. But above all, be happy. In the
end, you will find yourself just by knowing how things are.

Give up giving up! Reject nothing, accept nothing. Be still. But above all, be happy. In the
end, you will find yourself just by knowing how things are.
It would be perverse and humorless to suppose that just because Ashtavakra, with his
irreducible nondualism, considers meditation merely a distracting habit, he means us to
abandon our practice. Of course, from the perspective of unconditional freedom, where
nothing makes any difference, meditation seems a comically self-important waste of time.
But Ashtavakra makes it plain.
The moment a fool gives up his spiritual practices, he falls prey to fancies and desires.
God help the seeker who presumes that since he is already and always fulfilled, he can give
up trying.
It is all a matter of knowing. We are all indeed already perfect, but until we know it, we had
better deal with our ignorance, and that can't be done just by listening to words. It requires
sadhana, trying, doing what we do not wish to do. It means long, hard self-effacing work.
The heart of Ashtavakra's advice is not to give up our practice, but to abandon our strenuous
indolence.
Striving is the root of sorrow, he says. But who understands this?
Look at the master, he says. Who is lazier? He has trouble even blinking! He certainly does
not run around puffing himself up looking for God or liberation, busily making excuses for
not finding himself.
Dealing with our ignorance also means, for almost all of us, finding someone like Ashtavakra
to help us. We cannot easily break the spell ourselves. Here again, Ashtavakra is very
practical. At least half of the book describes the nature of the master, the man who has found
his way.

It is an austere and enchanting portrait. The master is a child, a fool, a man asleep, a leaf
tumbling in the wind. Inside, he is utterly free. He does exactly as he pleases. Rules mean
nothing to him. He doesn't care who makes fun of him, because he is always playing and
having a wonderful time. He lives as if he had no body. He seems to walk on air. He is
unsmudged, like the clear sky or the smooth and shining surface of a vast lake.
The Heart of Awareness
4
Because we are subject to the dualities which he has transcended, we glimpse his nature only
through paradox. He sees but he sees nothing. He sees what cannot be seen. He knows but he
knows nothing. He sleeps soundly without sleeping. He dreams without dreaming. He is
busy, but he does nothing. He is not alive, nor is he dead.
His secret, and the ultimate paradox, is that he stands on his own. He is completely by
himself (svasthya). Only by an absolute indepence (svatantrya) has he discovered his absolute
oneness with all things.
